Mutation Testing (#44615)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/testing/mutation-testing.md

As you can see, after correcting the equivalent mutants, we only have string mutations left, which we can easily 'kill' by checking the text of the exception message.

```csharp
[Fact]
public void InvalidDiscountPercent_ShouldThrowExceptionWithCorrectMessage()
{
    var exception1 = Assert.Throws<ArgumentException>(()
        => PriceCalculator.CalculatePrice(100, -1));
    Assert.Equal("Discount percent must be between 0 and 100.", exception1.Message);

    var exception2 = Assert.Throws<ArgumentException>(()
        => PriceCalculator.CalculatePrice(100, 101));
    Assert.Equal("Discount percent must be between 0 and 100.", exception2.Message);
}

[Fact]
public void InvalidPrice_ShouldThrowExceptionWithCorrectMessage()
{
    var exception = Assert.Throws<ArgumentException>(()
        => PriceCalculator.CalculatePrice(0, 10));
    Assert.Equal("Price must be greater than zero.", exception.Message);
}
```

:::image type="content" source="media/stryker-final-report.png" lightbox="media/stryker-final-report.png" alt-text="Stryker final report":::

> Mutation testing helps to find weak points in tests and makes them more reliable. It forces you to check not only the 'happy path', but also complex boundary cases, reducing the likelihood of bugs in production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mutation testing helps to find opportunities to improve tests that make them more reliable. It forces you to check not only the 'happy path', but also complex boundary cases, reducing the likelihood of bugs in production.
```

        }

        if (discountPercent < 0 || discountPercent > 100)
        {
            throw new ArgumentException("Discount percent must be between 0 and 100.");
        }

        var discount = price * (discountPercent / 100);
        var discountedPrice = price - discount;

        return Math.Round(discountedPrice, 2);
    }
}
```

The preceding method is covered by the following unit tests:

```csharp
[Fact]
public void ApplyDiscountCorrectly()
{
    decimal price = 100;
    decimal discountPercent = 10;

    var calculator = new PriceCalculator();

    var result = calculator.CalculatePrice(price, discountPercent);

    Assert.Equal(90.00m, result);
}

[Fact]
public void InvalidDiscountPercent_ShouldThrowException()
{
    var calculator = new PriceCalculator();

    Assert.Throws<ArgumentException>(() => calculator.CalculatePrice(100, -1));
    Assert.Throws<ArgumentException>(() => calculator.CalculatePrice(100, 101));
}

[Fact]
public void InvalidPrice_ShouldThrowException()
{
    var calculator = new PriceCalculator();

    Assert.Throws<ArgumentException>(() => calculator.CalculatePrice(-10, 10));
}
```

> First, install **Stryker.NET**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The preceding code highlights two projects, one for the service that acts as a `PriceCalculator` and the other is the test project.

## Install the global tool

First, install **Stryker.NET**.
```

To do this, you need to execute the command:

```dotnetcli
dotnet tool install -g dotnet-stryker
```

> Let's run Stryker using the command from the directory where the unit tests are located:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run `stryker`, invoke it from the command line in the directory where the unit test project is located:
```

```dotnetcli
dotnet stryker
```

> After the testing is completed, a report will be displayed in the console - how many mutants were killed and how many survived.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the tests have run, a report is displayed in the console.
```

:::image type="content" source="media/stryker-console-report.png" lightbox="media/stryker-console-report.png" alt-text="Stryker console report":::

**Stryker.NET** saves a detailed HTML report in the StrykerOutput directory.

:::image type="content" source="media/stryker-first-report.png" lightbox="media/stryker-first-report.png" alt-text="Stryker first report":::

> Now, consider what mutants are and what 'survived' and 'killed' mean. A mutant is a small change in your code that Stryker makes on purpose. The idea is simple: if your tests are good, they should catch the change and fail. If they still pass, your tests might not be strong enough. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, consider what mutants are and what 'survived' and 'killed' mean. A mutant is a small change in your code that Stryker makes on purpose. The idea is simple: if your tests are good, they should catch the change and fail. If they still pass, your tests might not be strong enough.
```

In our example, a mutant will be the replacement of the expression `price <= 0`, for example, with `price < 0`, after which unit tests are run.

Stryker supports several types of mutations:

| Type | Description |
|--|--|
| Equivalent | The equivalent operator is used to replace an operator with its equivalent. For example, `x < y` becomes `x <= y`. |
| Arithmetic | The arithmetic operator is used to replace an arithmetic operator with its equivalent. For example, `x + y` becomes `x - y`. |
| String | The string operator is used to replace a string with its equivalent. For example, `"text"` becomes `""`. |
| Logical | The logical operator is used to replace a logical operator with its equivalent. For example, `x && y` becomes `x \|\| y`. |

For additional mutation types, see the [Stryker.NET: Mutations](https://stryker-mutator.io/docs/stryker-net/mutations) documentation.

> If, after changing your code, the unit tests pass successfully, then they aren't sufficiently robust, and the mutant survived.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Incremental improvement

If, after changing your code, the unit tests pass successfully, then they aren't sufficiently robust, and the mutant survived.
```

        }

        if (discountPercent < 0 || discountPercent > 100)
        {
            throw new ArgumentException("Discount percent must be between 0 and 100.");
        }

        var discount = price * (discountPercent / 100);
        var discountedPrice = price - discount;

        return Math.Round(discountedPrice, 2);
    }
}
```

The preceding method is covered by the following unit tests:

```csharp
[Fact]
public void ApplyDiscountCorrectly()
{
    decimal price = 100;
    decimal discountPercent = 10;

    var calculator = new PriceCalculator();

    var result = calculator.CalculatePrice(price, discountPercent);

    Assert.Equal(90.00m, result);
}

[Fact]
public void InvalidDiscountPercent_ShouldThrowException()
{
    var calculator = new PriceCalculator();

    Assert.Throws<ArgumentException>(() => calculator.CalculatePrice(100, -1));
    Assert.Throws<ArgumentException>(() => calculator.CalculatePrice(100, 101));
}

[Fact]
public void InvalidPrice_ShouldThrowException()
{
    var calculator = new PriceCalculator();

    Assert.Throws<ArgumentException>(() => calculator.CalculatePrice(-10, 10));
}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
